Inspired by paper at:
http://advances.sciencemag.org/content/1/1/e1400005
where they look at the hiring network for CS, History, and Buisness.


Functions to write:
* Given an affiliation string, reduce it down to a simple unique identifier (e.g., 'Astronomy Dept, University of Washington, Box 23764, Seattle, WA' --> 'U Washington')
* Construct a graph object out of a bunch of papers.
* Trim graph down to only include papers by a single author
* Given the trimmed graph, construct the movement from intitution to institution, and label each step (grad school, postdoc, postdoc, long-term (prob faculty)).
* Need to re-write the matlab stuff in python:  http://tuvalu.santafe.edu/~aaronc/facultyhiring/

*hmm, hard to tell how we can replicate the gender stuff.  Could try and guess a gender for each author.


So I can do things in ADS labs like:
bibstem:"PhDT." year:2010

to get the list of phd's from a given year.

1) So I'd like to go through and grab the name and affiliation of each thesis.
1.5) chop down to only US institutions
2) then for each name, do a search and compute h-index and publication years and affiliations.  record each year there's a change in affiliation.  Need to solve the problem of people with common names.  Make a graph object for each person--nodes are papers. Make edges between nodes that share identical co-authors, or identical year+institution.  Maybe edge for sharing N-uncommon words in title? Can use networkX and has_path. Looks like ADS already does some paper network stuff.  Pretty cool, but still tangles up some Williams, B. 

Then we can run the MCMC to see how the institutions are related!
Can also look at how different phD classes do for h-index distribution.
Can look at # still publishing as a function of time and PhD class.

Can compute an estimate of young researcher attrition as anyone who publishes only 2-6 years after their phd. 

So fun things to find out:
1) Can I just get a data-dump of the astronomy database?  Why not have anual data releases for crazy people like me? 2-million records can't be that big, especially if you strip out the abstract text.

2) Is there a way to connect besides the web and the perl script?
3) Any good tools for separating authors with the same name? Shouldn't it be possible to cloud-link these things together and find the group I want?


-------
things I'd like to see from the data:
1) what's the ranking of different depts/observatories/labs? Any major changes over time?
2) How long do people continue publishing after their phd? Can we see a change in the fraction of people leaving the field over time?

another fun thing would be to look at h-index (or similar) as a function of time.  Is the long postdoc period necissary, or can we spot the productive astronomers early?
